CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to FileSystemKit

Thank you for your interest in contributing to FileSystemKit! This document provides guidelines and information for contributors.

## Code of Conduct

This project adheres to a Code of Conduct that all contributors are expected to follow. Please be respectful and constructive in all interactions.

## Getting Started

1. Fork the repository
2. Clone your fork: `git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/FileSystemKit.git`
3. Create a branch: `git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name`
4. Make your changes
5. Run tests: `swift test`
6. Ensure code builds: `swift build`
7. Commit your changes: `git commit -m "Add feature: description"`
8. Push to your fork: `git push origin feature/your-feature-name`
9. Create a Pull Request

## Development Setup

### Requirements

- Swift 6.0+
- Xcode 15.0+ (for macOS development)
- macOS 12.0+ (for building)

### Building

```bash
swift build
```

### Running Tests

```bash
swift test
```

### Running Tests with Coverage

```bash
swift test --enable-code-coverage
```

## Code Style

- Follow Swift API Design Guidelines
- Use meaningful variable and function names
- Add documentation comments for public APIs
- Keep functions focused and single-purpose
- Use `async/await` for asynchronous operations
- Prefer value types (structs) over reference types (classes) when possible

## Testing Guidelines

- Write unit tests for all new functionality
- Aim for at least 80% code coverage
- Use descriptive test names: `testFunctionName_WhenCondition_ShouldReturnExpectedResult`
- Use mock implementations (`MockChunkStorage`, `MockMetadataStorage`) for testing
- Test both success and error cases

## Pull Request Process

1. Ensure all tests pass
2. Update CHANGELOG.md with your changes
3. Update documentation if needed
4. Ensure code coverage doesn't decrease
5. Request review from maintainers

## Adding New Features

### Adding a New Compression Adapter

1. Create a new file in `Sources/FileSystemKit/Compression/`
2. Implement the `CompressionAdapter` protocol
3. Register the adapter in `CompressionAdapterRegistry`
4. Add tests in `Tests/FileSystemKitTests/CompressionAdapterTests.swift`

### Adding a New Disk Image Adapter

1. Create a new file in `Sources/FileSystemKit/Adapters/`
2. Implement the `DiskImageAdapter` protocol
3. Register the adapter in `DiskImageAdapterRegistry`
4. Add tests

### Adding a New File System Strategy

1. Create a new file in `Sources/FileSystemKit/FileSystems/`
2. Implement the `FileSystemStrategy` protocol
3. Register the strategy in `FileSystemStrategyFactory`
4. Add tests

## Reporting Issues

When reporting issues, please include:

- Swift version
- Platform (macOS/iOS/tvOS/watchOS) and version
- Steps to reproduce
- Expected behavior
- Actual behavior
- Relevant code snippets or error messages

## Code Review Process

1. All pull requests require at least one review from maintainers
2. Maintainers will review code for:
   - Correctness and functionality
   - Code style and consistency
   - Test coverage
   - Documentation completeness
3. Address review feedback promptly
4. Once approved, maintainers will merge the PR

## Release Process

Releases are managed by maintainers. When your PR is merged:
- It will be included in the next release
- Releases follow semantic versioning
- Release notes are generated from CHANGELOG.md

## Questions?

Feel free to:
- Open an issue for questions or discussions
- Start a discussion in GitHub Discussions
- Check existing issues and discussions first

Commit message:

Clarify GitHub Issues as primary issue tracking system
- Update CONTRIBUTING.md to explicitly state GitHub Issues is primary tracking system
- Update README.md to emphasize GitHub Issues for all issue types
- Add question issue template for questions and discussions
- Update bug report and feature request templates with issue tracking note
- Clarify that all bugs, features, questions, and documentation issues are tracked via GitHub Issues

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to FileSystemKit

Thank you for your interest in contributing to FileSystemKit! This document provides guidelines and information for contributors.

## Code of Conduct

This project adheres to a Code of Conduct that all contributors are expected to follow. Please be respectful and constructive in all interactions.

## Getting Started

1. Fork the repository
2. Clone your fork: `git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/FileSystemKit.git`
3. Create a branch: `git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name`
4. Make your changes
5. Run tests: `swift test`
6. Ensure code builds: `swift build`
7. Commit your changes: `git commit -m "Add feature: description"`
8. Push to your fork: `git push origin feature/your-feature-name`
9. Create a Pull Request

## Development Setup

### Requirements

- Swift 6.0+
- Xcode 15.0+ (for macOS development)
- macOS 12.0+ (for building)

### Building

```bash
swift build
```

### Running Tests

```bash
swift test
```

### Running Tests with Coverage

```bash
swift test --enable-code-coverage
```

## Code Style

- Follow Swift API Design Guidelines
- Use meaningful variable and function names
- Add documentation comments for public APIs
- Keep functions focused and single-purpose
- Use `async/await` for asynchronous operations
- Prefer value types (structs) over reference types (classes) when possible

## Testing Guidelines

- Write unit tests for all new functionality
- Aim for at least 80% code coverage
- Use descriptive test names: `testFunctionName_WhenCondition_ShouldReturnExpectedResult`
- Use mock implementations (`MockChunkStorage`, `MockMetadataStorage`) for testing
- Test both success and error cases

## Pull Request Process

1. Ensure all tests pass
2. Update CHANGELOG.md with your changes
3. Update documentation if needed
4. Ensure code coverage doesn't decrease
5. Request review from maintainers

## Adding New Features

### Adding a New Compression Adapter

1. Create a new file in `Sources/FileSystemKit/Compression/`
2. Implement the `CompressionAdapter` protocol
3. Register the adapter in `CompressionAdapterRegistry`
4. Add tests in `Tests/FileSystemKitTests/CompressionAdapterTests.swift`

### Adding a New Disk Image Adapter

1. Create a new file in `Sources/FileSystemKit/Adapters/`
2. Implement the `DiskImageAdapter` protocol
3. Register the adapter in `DiskImageAdapterRegistry`
4. Add tests

### Adding a New File System Strategy

1. Create a new file in `Sources/FileSystemKit/FileSystems/`
2. Implement the `FileSystemStrategy` protocol
3. Register the strategy in `FileSystemStrategyFactory`
4. Add tests

## Issue Tracking

**All issues are tracked using GitHub Issues.** This includes:
- Bug reports
- Feature requests
- Questions and discussions
- Documentation improvements
- Performance issues

### Reporting Issues

All issues should be reported via [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/rickhohler/FileSystemKit/issues). Please use the appropriate issue template:
- **Bug Report**: Use the bug report template for bugs and unexpected behavior
- **Feature Request**: Use the feature request template for new features or enhancements

When reporting issues, please include:

- Swift version
- Platform (macOS/iOS/tvOS/watchOS) and version
- Steps to reproduce
- Expected behavior
- Actual behavior
- Relevant code snippets or error messages

**Before creating a new issue**, please:
1. Search existing issues to see if your issue has already been reported
2. Check if your issue has been resolved in a recent release
3. Use the appropriate issue template
4. Provide as much detail as possible

## Code Review Process

1. All pull requests require at least one review from maintainers
2. Maintainers will review code for:
   - Correctness and functionality
   - Code style and consistency
   - Test coverage
   - Documentation completeness
3. Address review feedback promptly
4. Once approved, maintainers will merge the PR

## Release Process

Releases are managed by maintainers. When your PR is merged:
- It will be included in the next release
- Releases follow semantic versioning
- Release notes are generated from CHANGELOG.md

## Questions?

All questions and discussions should be tracked via **GitHub Issues**:
- Open a new issue with the "question" label for questions
- Search existing issues first to see if your question has been answered
- For general discussions, you can also use GitHub Discussions

**Note**: All project-related issues, bugs, features, and questions are tracked in [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/rickhohler/FileSystemKit/issues).
